---
title: 'Setting Up a Cron Job to Run a Node.js Script'
description: 'Learn how to set up a cron job to run a Node.js script at specified time intervals.'
date: '2024-03-13'
author: 'Rohan Dhimal'
tags:
  - javascript
  - cronjob
  - crontab
  - typescript
  - linux
  - nodejs
---

# Setting Up a Cron Job to Run a Node.js Script

<br>

## Introduction

A `cron job` is a task scheduler in Unix-like operating systems that automatically performs tasks at specified time intervals. In this tutorial, we'll walk through setting up a cron job to run a Node.js script.

<br>

## Writing the Node.js Script

Let's start by creating a simple Node.js script named `index.js`:

```js
console.log('I am a cronjob script')
```

<br>

## Setting Up the Cron Job

To view existing cron jobs running on your machine, use the following command:

```bash
crontab -l
```

<br>

If no cron jobs are present or if there's no crontab file for your user, you'll see a message such as `no crontab for [user]`. You can easily create one using:

```bash
crontab -e
```

<br>

This command will open your default text editor, allowing you to edit your crontab file. If you already have one, it will be opened for editing.

<br>

Add the following line at the end of the file to run your Node.js script every five minutes:

```txt
5 * * * * /usr/bin/node /home/rohan/crontab/index.js
```

<br>

Note: Replace `/usr/bin/node` with the path to your Node.js executable and `/home/rohan/crontab/index.js` with the path to your Node.js script.

<br>

This will run your script every five minutes. To learn more about how to schedule cron jobs and how it works. You can visit [Crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/)

<br>

You can also pass environment variables to the cron job script easily:

```txt
5 * * * * MY_ENV=my_secret /usr/bin/node /home/rohan/crontab/index.js
```

<br>

## Viewing Cron Job Logs

Cron job logs are typically stored in `/var/log/syslog` or another location based on your Linux distribution.

<br>

You can view them using:

```bash
cat /var/log/syslog | grep CRON
```

<br>

If you want to redirect the logging to your own file, update the crontab file as follows:

```txt
5 * * * * /usr/bin/node /home/rohan/crontab/index.js >> /home/rohan/cronjob/log.txt 2>&1
```

<br>

Make sure to implement error handling and logging within your Node.js script to capture important information and errors in the log file.
